README.md, before:

# Nissan-env200-Battery-Upgrade
Software for upgrading a 24kWh env200 to 40kWh using a Muxsan 3-port CAN-bridge.
![alt text](https://github.com/dalathegreat/Nissan-env200-Battery-Upgrade/blob/main/leaf-can-bridge-3-port-env200/BatteryUpgrade.png)

# Why is this needed when upgrading?
This is not mandatory, but highly recommended. Technically you can install a 40kWh pack and just pair it with Leafspy (explained here: https://youtu.be/aSSjde_oAT0 ), but later on you will run into instrumentation issues and also isses with some fastchargers not charging the battery fully. The code here fixes that when installed on a CAN-bridge, which gets mounted between the battery and vehicle EV-CAN system.

## CAN-bridge installation videos
Below are some example installation videos:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W-W7FwTNOnU

# CAN-bridge software
This section contains info on how to contribute/compile the software from scratch for the 3-port CAN-bridge

## Setting up compilation environment [Windows]
The firmware is compiled with Atmel Studio 7. The older version from 2020 is recommended, since it is less bloated and works with more non-genuine flashing tools. "Atmel Studio v7.0.1931" can be downloaded from here: https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tools-tools-and-software/avr-and-sam-downloads-archive

Once the Atmel Studio 7 has been installed, you can clone/download the CAN-bridge software from this repository: https://github.com/dalathegreat/Nissan-LEAF-CCS/

Once on your machine, double click the "can-bridge-env200.cproj" and it opens with Atmel Studio. Press F7 to build. This generates a .hex file in the build directory that can be flashed onto a CAN-bridge

## Making changes to the software
All changes are made in the "can-bridge-env200.c" file. Manipulations to messages happen after the **switch(frame.can_id){ ** line. Generated messages to be sent are handled in the **ISR(TCC0_OVF_vect){** interrupt. Happy programming!

## Flashing the 3-port CAN-bridge
If you want to simply flash a pre-made .hex file, follow this video: https://youtu.be/eLcNSo2Vn6U?t=170
A pre-made .hex file is found in the debug folder of this repository.
Please note that you don't need +12V to power the CAN-bridge, a standard 5V USB cable can also be used when flashing.

If you want to flash directly from Atmel Studio while making code changes, press CTRL+ALT+F5 to start a debugging session, that defaults to flashing the CAN-bridge

Commit message:

Enable CAN3 and coulomb tracking (#1)
* Make extender capacity configurable

* Document serial measurement output

README.md, after:

# Nissan-env200-Battery-Upgrade
Software for upgrading a 24kWh env200 to 40kWh using a Muxsan 3-port CAN-bridge.
![alt text](https://github.com/dalathegreat/Nissan-env200-Battery-Upgrade/blob/main/leaf-can-bridge-3-port-env200/BatteryUpgrade.png)

# Why is this needed when upgrading?
This is not mandatory, but highly recommended. Technically you can install a 40kWh pack and just pair it with Leafspy (explained here: https://youtu.be/aSSjde_oAT0 ), but later on you will run into instrumentation issues and also isses with some fastchargers not charging the battery fully. The code here fixes that when installed on a CAN-bridge, which gets mounted between the battery and vehicle EV-CAN system.

## CAN-bridge installation videos
Below are some example installation videos:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W-W7FwTNOnU

# CAN-bridge software
This section contains info on how to contribute/compile the software from scratch for the 3-port CAN-bridge

## Setting up compilation environment [Windows]
The firmware is compiled with Atmel Studio 7. The older version from 2020 is recommended, since it is less bloated and works with more non-genuine flashing tools. "Atmel Studio v7.0.1931" can be downloaded from here: https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tools-tools-and-software/avr-and-sam-downloads-archive

Once the Atmel Studio 7 has been installed, you can clone/download the CAN-bridge software from this repository: https://github.com/dalathegreat/Nissan-LEAF-CCS/

Once on your machine, double click the "can-bridge-env200.cproj" and it opens with Atmel Studio. Press F7 to build. This generates a .hex file in the build directory that can be flashed onto a CAN-bridge

## Making changes to the software
All changes are made in the "can-bridge-env200.c" file. Manipulations to messages happen after the **switch(frame.can_id){ ** line. Generated messages to be sent are handled in the **ISR(TCC0_OVF_vect){** interrupt. Happy programming!

## Calibrating the extender pack capacity
The firmware assumes the extender pack can deliver **450 GIDs** (about 36 kWh).
This value is stored in the `extender_full_gids` variable and can be overridden at build time
by defining `EXTENDER_FULL_GIDS_OVERRIDE` to the measured full‑charge GID count:

```
#define EXTENDER_FULL_GIDS_OVERRIDE 420
```

All SOC and quick‑charge scaling calculations use this setting, so adjust it to match your pack’s real capacity.

## Serial measurement output
When built with `USB_SERIAL` and `ENABLE_CAN3`, the firmware polls the BMS and current sensor every 10 ms and prints pack voltage, current and extender GIDs over the USB serial port for debugging.

## Flashing the 3-port CAN-bridge
If you want to simply flash a pre-made .hex file, follow this video: https://youtu.be/eLcNSo2Vn6U?t=170
A pre-made .hex file is found in the debug folder of this repository.
Please note that you don't need +12V to power the CAN-bridge, a standard 5V USB cable can also be used when flashing.

If you want to flash directly from Atmel Studio while making code changes, press CTRL+ALT+F5 to start a debugging session, that defaults to flashing the CAN-bridge
